Tenth episode of season 3! I'm building a programming environment from scratch while recording myself. Today, a soul searching session, in silence. Lots came out. I have a much clearer vision of what a useful cell would be like to others, through a couple of concrete user journeys.

If you are just tuning in, this will give some context: https://github.com/altocodenl/cell

Basically, this week has been tough because, although I am very happy about how the editor is coming along, and how useful it could be to me and perhaps a few others, I have to admit: it is absolutely killing me to feel that nobody around me, most of them well-meaning, encouraging, smart people, nobody gets what I'm really doing. The gap is just too large. And it's been like this for a long time, not just with cell, but with essentially every project fully of my own that I choose to do.

This is not a hobby. This is my best work. My most general contribution.

So, how could I make bridges between what I'm building and others, in the sense of making something that could *actually* be useful to them, tomorrow?

And this rush is not because I need to fund, grow and sell the company. Some other day I will get into dissecting why that particular path is not for cell or altocode.

This comes from a need for this project not to be isolated from the rest of humanity. Starting with those humans around me. I'm not expecting to make everyone use cell, but if a few of those I come across don't even understand the point, then I'm failing them, and I am failing my own mission. Full stop. No comforting line of thought of "this will be understood in X decades" makes sense here. It would sure be nice to do something quite timeless, and I hope for it, but it has also to exist in the near present, in the minds of others, as something they can *use*.

What are the entrypoints for others into cell? How could they make it work?

I thought of a few things. The first is pasted below: let people create UIs from data, right away. That could be entrypoint #1: create UIs from data.

UIs from data, example:
- You paste some data from a spreadsheet with sentiment data.
- You create a dashboard out of it with chatgpt. You get the link right away, and you can also see it wysiwyg.
- You can password protect it too.
- You can make a form to submit entries too.
- Those entries are checked for sentiment by chatgpt.
- Then you can make a table to see things, with sorting and filtering.

It would be basically starting with the interface, all interface. The analysis and the API can come later.

The dashboard as an entry point. The same than back of the envelope financial calculations was that for visicalc.

I also think that UIs are mostly made of three things: dashboards, forms and tables. With some base models, plus a LLM, we could generate them dynamically from data. Two things are going to be tough and great to make: 1) a smoooooth experience where you have some data and a need and a browser, nothing else; 2) the implementation of a SPA in that link, in a way that it polls data.

Another entrypoint: you don't share anything with anyone through interfaces, but you figure out data and organize it. But that's too general, too programm-y, to be what I'm looking for. Or perhaps not, but I need way more language for that, or more editor. Definitely more editor. And way more skill. Although... that assumes you'd do that yourself. But, like with the UIs, the LLM could do that for you.

The figuring out things entrypoint is also interesting. It could be API calls. It could be some messy data in a spreadsheet. It could be data in a relational database, for which we'd require a read connector.

To figure things out, the LLM should have some good tools to slice and dice data. Or rather, to query, filter, count.

Before we go: we could really outline these two scenarios as both sides of the use of cell, *in general*. Publishing and thinking. Yeah, I like the scientific angle. Because, at its best, whatever it is that we're doing here, with data, it can only be scientific.

Instead of publishing, sharing? No, you can also share your thoughts mid-way. Publishing is about being ready, or showing your ready side. Es la careta. And it has its place, it is as essential as the other half. You want that form to work. You want the dashboard to show reasonable data, to help you in an emergency, or to sound the alarm if there's one. We need that. And we also need the darker, freer space to think, to muse, to have rougher edges and unexpected connections. That's the space of thinking. Perhaps it is pondering. Yeah, pondering. Because you also think when you publish. Pondering is about taking time, going deeper. It is internal.

cell for publishing
cell for pondering

OK, I'm going to stop here. Thank you for watching. This was a big one.
